README.md, before:

# Interview Cheatsheet for Data Engineering

### DSA and Coding

- [Neetcode.io](https://neetcode.io/roadmap)
- [Python Cheat Sheet](https://leetcode.com/discuss/study-guide/2122306/Python-Cheat-Sheet-for-Leetcode)

### SQL

- [Hackerrank - SQL](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/sql)
- [Data Lemur - SQL Interview Questions](https://datalemur.com/questions)

### Spark Architecture

- [Spark Developer Certification - Comprehensive Study Guide](https://rakirahman.blob.core.windows.net/public/notebooks/Spark-Developer-Certification-Study-Guide.html)
- [Broadcast & Accumulator — Shared Variables in Spark](https://medium.com/@ghoshsiddharth25/broadcast-accumulator-shared-variables-in-spark-4c47bf81e53c)
- [Apache Spark Shuffle Service](https://medium.com/@rachit1arora/apache-spark-shuffle-service-there-are-more-than-one-options-c1a8e098230e)
- [Structured Streaming Programming Guide](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/structured-streaming-programming-guide.html)

### Spark Optimisation

- [Apache Spark Performance Boosting](https://towardsdatascience.com/apache-spark-performance-boosting-e072a3ec1179)
- [How to Optimize Your Apache Spark Application with Partitions](https://engineering.salesforce.com/how-to-optimize-your-apache-spark-application-with-partitions-257f2c1bb414/)
- [Maximizing Spark Performance: Minimizing Shuffle Overhead](https://python.plainenglish.io/maximizing-spark-performance-minimizing-shuffle-overhead-e21b7a4e5e71)
- [Join Strategies in Apache Spark — A hands-on approach!](https://medium.com/@amarkrgupta96/join-strategies-in-apache-spark-a-hands-on-approach-d0696fc0a6c9)
- [Handling Data Skew in Apache Spark](https://medium.com/@suffyan.asad1/handling-data-skew-in-apache-spark-techniques-tips-and-tricks-to-improve-performance-e2934b00b021)
- [Adaptive Query Execution](https://www.databricks.com/blog/2020/05/29/adaptive-query-execution-speeding-up-spark-sql-at-runtime.html)

### System Design

- [Preparing for the Data Engineering System Design Interview (1/2)](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/preparing-for-the-data-engineering-system-design-interview-1-of-2-4d626a311182)
- [Preparing for the Data Engineering System Design Interview (2/2)](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/preparing-for-the-data-engineering-system-design-interview-2-of-2-e18312ca19b3)
- [Cracking the Data Engineering Interview: The System Design Interview](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-engineering-interview-the-system-design-interview-fcda02d95c65)
- [Lambda Architecture: A Big Data processing framework](https://medium.com/@vinciabhinav7/lambda-architecture-a-big-data-processing-framework-introduction-74a47bc88bd3)
- [System Design - Checklist](system-design/system-design-checklist.md)

### Data Modelling

- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 1: Overview](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-1-an-overview-b09e7d5a7938)
- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 2: Normalization, Indexes and Partitioning](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-2-normalization-indexes-and-partitioning-fac334d767ca)
- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 3: Slowly Changing Dimensions](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-3-slowly-changing-dimensions-e33118de7fd1)
- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 4: Designing Efficient Data Structures](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-4-designing-efficient-data-structures-625a78d5fe6c)
- [Data Modelling - Checklist](system-design/data-modelling-checklist.md)

### Storage Solutions

- What is? Block, Blob & object storage. Offerings in Cloud?
- What to use? Image/Unstructured storage
- Indepth - Avro, Parquet, Orc (Orc splits)
- [A Data Engineer’s Guide To Nontraditional Data Storages](https://www.toptal.com/data-science/data-engineering-guide-to-storages)
- Data Lakes - Pros/Cons - Delta Lake, Iceberg, Hudi
- OLAP databases - Druid, Clickhouse, Pinot, Presto

### PySpark - Cheatsheet

#### Spark-Sql

- [RDDs](pyspark/spark-rdd.py)
- [Read and Write](pyspark/spark-read-write.py)
- [Transformations](pyspark/spark-transformations.py)
- [Joins and Sets](pyspark/spark-joins-sets.py)
- [Group-by, Aggregates and Window functions](pyspark/spark-window-groupby.py)
- [SQL Queries on PySpark](pyspark/spark-queries.py)

#### Spark-Streaming

- [Streaming read/write](pyspark/spark-streaming.py)

Commit message:

updating resources for storage solutions

README.md, after:

# Interview Cheatsheet for Data Engineering

### DSA and Coding

- [Neetcode.io](https://neetcode.io/roadmap)
- [Python Cheat Sheet](https://leetcode.com/discuss/study-guide/2122306/Python-Cheat-Sheet-for-Leetcode)

### SQL

- [Hackerrank - SQL](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/sql)
- [Data Lemur - SQL Interview Questions](https://datalemur.com/questions)

### Spark Architecture

- [Spark Developer Certification - Comprehensive Study Guide](https://rakirahman.blob.core.windows.net/public/notebooks/Spark-Developer-Certification-Study-Guide.html)
- [Broadcast & Accumulator — Shared Variables in Spark](https://medium.com/@ghoshsiddharth25/broadcast-accumulator-shared-variables-in-spark-4c47bf81e53c)
- [Apache Spark Shuffle Service](https://medium.com/@rachit1arora/apache-spark-shuffle-service-there-are-more-than-one-options-c1a8e098230e)
- [Structured Streaming Programming Guide](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/structured-streaming-programming-guide.html)

### Spark Optimisation

- [Apache Spark Performance Boosting](https://towardsdatascience.com/apache-spark-performance-boosting-e072a3ec1179)
- [How to Optimize Your Apache Spark Application with Partitions](https://engineering.salesforce.com/how-to-optimize-your-apache-spark-application-with-partitions-257f2c1bb414/)
- [Maximizing Spark Performance: Minimizing Shuffle Overhead](https://python.plainenglish.io/maximizing-spark-performance-minimizing-shuffle-overhead-e21b7a4e5e71)
- [Join Strategies in Apache Spark — A hands-on approach!](https://medium.com/@amarkrgupta96/join-strategies-in-apache-spark-a-hands-on-approach-d0696fc0a6c9)
- [Handling Data Skew in Apache Spark](https://medium.com/@suffyan.asad1/handling-data-skew-in-apache-spark-techniques-tips-and-tricks-to-improve-performance-e2934b00b021)
- [Adaptive Query Execution](https://www.databricks.com/blog/2020/05/29/adaptive-query-execution-speeding-up-spark-sql-at-runtime.html)

### System Design

- [Preparing for the Data Engineering System Design Interview (1/2)](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/preparing-for-the-data-engineering-system-design-interview-1-of-2-4d626a311182)
- [Preparing for the Data Engineering System Design Interview (2/2)](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/preparing-for-the-data-engineering-system-design-interview-2-of-2-e18312ca19b3)
- [Cracking the Data Engineering Interview: The System Design Interview](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-engineering-interview-the-system-design-interview-fcda02d95c65)
- [System Design - Checklist](system-design/system-design-checklist.md)

### Data Modelling

- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 1: Overview](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-1-an-overview-b09e7d5a7938)
- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 2: Normalization, Indexes and Partitioning](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-2-normalization-indexes-and-partitioning-fac334d767ca)
- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 3: Slowly Changing Dimensions](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-3-slowly-changing-dimensions-e33118de7fd1)
- [Cracking the Data Modeling Interview: Part 4: Designing Efficient Data Structures](https://medium.com/@seancoyne/cracking-the-data-modeling-interview-part-4-designing-efficient-data-structures-625a78d5fe6c)
- [Data Modelling - Checklist](system-design/data-modelling-checklist.md)

### Storage Solutions

- [Parquet, ORC, and Avro: The File Format Fundamentals of Big Data](https://www.upsolver.com/blog/the-file-format-fundamentals-of-big-data)
- [A Data Engineer’s Guide To Nontraditional Data Storages](https://www.toptal.com/data-science/data-engineering-guide-to-storages)
- [Open Table Formats for Efficient Data Processing: Delta Lake vs Iceberg vs Hudi](https://medium.com/starschema-blog/open-table-formats-for-efficient-data-processing-delta-lake-vs-iceberg-vs-hudi-b1107141e9a6)
- [Comparison of the Open Source OLAP Systems for Big Data: ClickHouse, Druid, and Pinot](https://leventov.medium.com/comparison-of-the-open-source-olap-systems-for-big-data-clickhouse-druid-and-pinot-8e042a5ed1c7)

### PySpark - Cheatsheet

#### Spark-Sql

- [RDDs](pyspark/spark-rdd.py)
- [Read and Write](pyspark/spark-read-write.py)
- [Transformations](pyspark/spark-transformations.py)
- [Joins and Sets](pyspark/spark-joins-sets.py)
- [Group-by, Aggregates and Window functions](pyspark/spark-window-groupby.py)
- [SQL Queries on PySpark](pyspark/spark-queries.py)

#### Spark-Streaming

- [Streaming read/write](pyspark/spark-streaming.py)
